>> Brian Holt: So
we've written our entire application.
We did React first, then we integrated
Redux, and then we did Flow and
all that kinda fun stuff, and we're gonna
kinda take it down the final stretch
here and do a couple more
build-oriented sort of things.
The first thing that we're gonna
do is universal rendering,
also formerly known as
isomorphic rendering,
also formerly known as a bunch
of other really dumb terms.
Let's stick with server side rendering
because that's actually what we're
gonna be doing.
We're gonna take React, and
we're gonna take our application,
we're gonna stick it in Node and
say render this out to a string so
that when you go down to the client
you have fully rendered mark up.
So kind of to demonstrate to you here,
if I view page source here,
that is 100% of the HTML that I'm sending
down to the user which is nothing, right?
It's just the shell that React
them bootstraps itself and
renders out to the dom.
To be honest with you this is
gonna be fine most of the time,
server side rendering is by
no means required, right?
However it's going to improve
perceived load time, right?
We're playing a psychology game
here with our users, right?
We want them to think that our
webpage is as fast as possible, right?
So if I send down complete mark
up the browser will read it,
it will render out your mark up, and then
behind the scenes React is gonna hurry and
bootstrap itself and
then make your page interactive, right?
So it's kind of a game a little bit,
right?
It's a game in the sense that
the user sees the page rendered and
it's not actually interactive yet, right?
If they click on the buttons,
the JavaScript is not yet
there to be interacted with, right?
But by the time hopefully
that the user sees something,
makes a decision in their mind, does like,
I´m gonna click on that button.
And by the time they actually move
the mouse to click on the button,
hopefully by that point your JavaScript
will have downloaded [INAUDIBLE]
attached to all of the dom, and
then it'll be ready to happen.
Usually, that's the case, right?
So the user thinks that
the page is faster,
despite the fact that the time
to interactive, right?
The time that it actually is ready to be
clicked on is gonna be about the same
if not even a tiny bit slower,
right, cuz you're sending more HTML.
React is having to do a little bit more,
all that kind of stuff.
That´s what we´re gonna do, the key
here is that this requires Node, right?
So if you´re writing Rails, Rails really
doesn´t have a way to run JavaScript, at
least not directly that I´m aware of, same
thing with Java, etc, etc, etc, right?
So you´re gonna need Node in
here somewhere to be able to do.
So something that a lot
of companies will do.
Say for
example you do have like a Java back end,
that introduced what we call a node
middle end or this that's what I called.
I don't know if other people call that,
but
you'll have like a node middle end, right?
So you have this node server that makes
request to our API server, your Java
server, your rail server It gets all the
information there in the node middle end.
It'll do your service at rendering for
you and then send down complete workup.
So, that's always a possibility as well,
I would say it's pretty common.
It also helps if you just run in node in
the first place because that just works.
Cool, so I wanna tell you that server-side
rendering by itself is actually
not terribly difficult to do.
So if we go to,
I'm gonna just pull up on my other
repose here,
/btholds/ I think it's the es.
>> Brian Holt: I think it's this one.
Okay yeah, so
if I go to the GitHub project here,
I'm just gonna show you an example
of server side rendering that's
a lot more simple than
what we're gonna do today.
So I'll make this larger
>> Brian Holt: So
I did this with COA,
you could easily do this with Express.
Really the big key here is 21 and
through 24.
You just say reactdom
server RenderTheString, and
then you pass it the React app, right?
It's going to go through and
render out your app to a string and
then you just put that in a template.
And you send that down,
then end, that's it.
So React's server side rendering,
at its most basic,
is really just that,
that is to say, not a whole lot.
However, we kinda have a strange
issue here that we're doing
client side routing cuz
we're using React's router.
And so the fact that we're using the
client-side router introduces a little bit
of complexity, because we don't have
to write the routing code twice.
Now if you're into it,
if you want to, right,
you can totally write a server version of
the routing and then you can go and write
a separate version of clients I'm routing,
and just try and keep those in sync.
I'm gonna say that's usually a bad idea,
right?
Cuz, something that I say
all the time is like,
if something has to be kept in sync
it's always going to fall out of sync,
like that just always happens it's
a really prone to bugs to do it that way.
So it's really great if we can make React
router handle both server side routing and
client side routing.
And the answer is you can, that does work.